---
layout: post
title: M1 Mac
---

## It just works

Like steve jobs said, it really just works. There are a few bunch of QoL changes. And esp that interface. Just looks kinda old for some reason.

## Redoing my room

My room is kinda meh. It isnt exactly a "mess" but it is kinda bad.
I think I took care of the mold problem at least somewhat.

- To solve it completely, I have to get some drywall. Prob from bunnings
- To prevent it from happening completely, I have to take out some of the stuff that is still a bit moldy
- Then take that entire pile out at the front

After that, I can start organising the room and placing wall shelves and custom cabinets with 2-5 levels.

Then I can simply start placing my books in there.

- and other junk below the desk

## Pt. 2?

I can also make better use of the ceiling space. Place two stainless steel/aluminium rails parallel. From one side to another. Actually we could place 3-4 rails and therefore have 2-3 'railways'.

- each railway can have I would say 4 railcarts. Which are longer than they are wide
- these can be used to store junk that wont be used. So you dont have to throw stuff out anymore, only empty cardboard boxes (which cant be used for much other than shipping, so maybe keep some in empty spaces)

## If Pt. 2, then Pt. 3

Loft bed. Disasm the bed and place mattress in kitchen.

- in theory pretty simple. Just use those 4 timber beams and the existing bed frame
- to hold it up more, use inner pocket hole joints or just wood glue. Then a bunch of steel angle brackets everywhere
- the biggest deal is prob the floor. Maybe use the wall somehow as support, or drill an angle bracket into the tile. Will need a diamond tipped drill bit and a carbide tipped drill bit

Then getting the mattress up there.

- use a lift, a manual pulley system that uses two cogs and a single very strong rope that can hold 40kg at least
- once mattress is up and above the frame, manually drag it on a ladder and dump it into the frame
- the frame itself should hold itself. The outer framing needs to ensure the inner framing doesnt fall

### Fencing

Then we can just get a bunch of painted timber and cut it to about 180cm. Then just glue it or drill it into the side of the inner frame.

After the loft bed, we have a bunch of extra space under the bed for more cabinets and perhaps an actual bookcase instead of just cabinets.
