---
layout: post
title: Almost Time
---

So its almost time. Its been 9 months since my first post. Ive taken a break but its starting to get annoying.

In my mid break adventures. Im looking at a few things.

Freebsd, openbsd, fuschia and xv6 for riscv. I know they work. Especially the arm parts.
Can I debug it? The part where they do specific things. On qemu. Like TCR_EL1. And setting/resetting stuff.
Seems like limine was also able to do it pretty well. How? On UEFI too. They did it in the thing.

Now what about the ECS? Im just using bevy. But Im not completely sure. I guess you mostly need to have a world target. To spawn entities in. And bind components to. Then you loop and change the state. Should usually be fast enough unless you are doing simulation stuff like totally real battle sim. Then you'd prob want hardware accel/compute shaders. Never optimise prematurely, cause you never get anyway.

What about rei? Im really liking FP. Especially pure FP. Could it be possible to have a strict pure FP language. But syntactic sugar to make it less annoying? And even like a conventional full OOP syntax? I guess a lot of it is syntax. From my own experiences. Im also kind of starting to like the idea of everything near the root if possible. Having systems and subsystems would still help for organisation purposes, zero overhead organisation I guess. And incremental compilation so you can efficiently target items to be recompiled.

Maybe you can even use something like a global key val filesystem instead? Err. Modularity is different to inheritance. Hierarchical modularity is good. Hierarchical inheritance isnt. Modular programming is a very good idea. Inheritance is a pretty bad idea. Instead ECS. I think. Or some strict way. Aka unsafe-safe split. Maybe even high level sugar to do 99% of the things you want. Like rust std but better. And if you want, define your own unsafe blocks.
