---
layout: post
title: Well your doctor must have cut a large portion of it off
---

## lol

so I cant get this thing out of my mind. Like yea its kinda the key problem. Idk why. I usually shout out some rude word or phrase to reset the mind. It kinda works. So if it gets too obsessed with something I dont like. I just shout something out and it helps restore the brain.

I dunno I dont really like it. A lot of the times the obsession is very social and historicall oriented. I am too infatuated with the past. Feelings of shame and guilt. Guilt from being too privileged or something. Shame from not being good enough.

They say to learn to love yourself. idk bro.

## mold

So I just found out that mold is growing on the eastern wall. It seems to originate from the moisture buildup from the aircon water outlet + constant rain + moist soil clump on the external brickface.

I got rid of the internal drywall and behold. Mold growth. So I poured some 70% IPA on it to just get rid of the stuff on the surface. Then I digged some of the moise soil out. And stopped the AC.

But it might rain again soon. Maybe tommorow or something? somaybe I'll just place the wood piece + roof on the wall to prevent direct contact. The water should then pipe out and down onto the lower soil and not wet the critical parts as much. But it will still moisturise the lower parts. Which isnt good.

So i think i'll just get ridof the soil until ground level. And create kind of a cliff thing. Then place a small brick or stone wall to prevent soil from eroding. Also some pebbles there to drain the water better.

Later on i'll seal all the gaps. And apply a waterproofing sealant finish. And maybe if things still get kinda bad. I'll just place a waterproof wrap overit and drill it into the brick. On the inside it should be mostly fine. But there is a lack of airflow. So next i'll get an exhaust fan. Then i'll cut out a hole in the main door and place it through.

## IPA

IPA has got to be one of the best inventions. Other than the gutenberg press. Such a neat thing. I accidentally screwed one of the binocular lens with it though. Maybe I'll get a binoculars lens cleaning fluid and try to fix it. Idk if I can. Maybe F.

99% IPA!

## games

I like games. who doesnt? Anyway I want to get that game engine up and well. I think I want to make it for 3D based. And character-data oriented. So like Unreal but in a more 'One chunk is actually self contained' and 'From a human perspective and not too generic' and 'Sacrifice generics for ease of manipulation, if you want to manipulate harder, use a more generic engine'. You have a character that represents any intelligent entity with CharacterStats. A worldobject is any entity with WorldStats. It can be either `static` or `dynamic`. A dynamic worldobject can usually be moved around and transformed in different ways like a crate. A static WO is usually like a tree and cant be transformed from its initial position.

In a game like league of legends. Your characters are the entities that have `meaningful dynamic information` (MDI) like HP, MP, Movespeed. So these are the champions that each summoner controls. You will therefore have at most 10 characters at any time. Your lesser entities like the 2 shopkeepers can seem character-like. With their own animnations, voice lines, interactions when you press P or stay at base for too long. But tbh they dont need any complex logic like AI pathfinding to control. So they can just be a `dynamic WO`. The minions and monsters though, can be hit and can hit back. So they can be characters. What about stuff like wards? Maybe pets? This is a bit more complicated. But pets are def characters because they can be controlled. Wards cant. They are placed down and do something specific. So they can just be a `dynamic WO`.

So the way I see it. Look at the object closely. Its appearance, dynamics throughout the game. Edge conditions. And if youre still unsure, best to make the more specific like character. Then once you realise that it doesnt need all that extra character dynamics, simplify it to a dynamic WO. If you can then see that it is even more straightforward. Then convert to a static WO.

### Gantz VR

In many 3D games, there is a lot of static WOs. The skybox and far away stuff can usually just be a texture. The buildings and trees can be a static WO. And just be as simple as a single mesh, either as its own model or better just integrated into the map mesh itself as a set of vertices.
Then you can place more important things like any specific item pickups. Maybe a health pack. Or a weapon drop. And make it a dynamic WO with a set of dynamic logic for getting dropped, picked up, and any extra game state hooks like decrementing the game timer. These dynamic WOs are usually mini-characters but do not have extra stuff like AI and movability.

Then comes the most key part. The actual characters. The human controlled and AI controlled entities. The key thing about a character is that they are controllable. Either by an AI or a human. A character usually has its own set of information derived from a more generic XCharType. Like a soldier derives its stats from a Human type. The key to making good characters is to just write them as simple as possible and add on things when you need to. Then if things get messy, clean it up.
