---
layout: post
title: To-do
---

## Languages

So I really like `rei`. Getting it up makes sense. We can also watch others do it. I like how relaxing it is. It doesnt have to be annoying. The next step is a fully functional grammar with the parser. As long as its LL(1) with no backtracking, which it seems to be. Thats pretty good. You can also just use another parser frramework for it.

The thing is then to somehow play along with the generated AST. I've looked at rust. And it seems to make the expressions more "generic". Desugaring and stuff if you parsed the sugar directly. Into a form that can be type checked as you crawl the tree.

## Expressions

So this was the root I guess. I dunno how "best" to structure it. If there even is a best way. I think just like rust, we should just have everything in one thing. Every possible expr is OR'ed. Then we notice a pattern. Where certain operators have certain privileges. `()`, `{}`, `*/%`, etc.

## Arcen

Epaint looks very nice. I also went with egui for a pluggable UI engine in T3D. You actually just write egui directly. Just like arcen. Im thinking about unifying it so you can transform arcen -> egui and other ui frameworks. Maybe even druid. Dioxus native, prob too.

## The brain lock

The brain keeps torturing me with thoughts of past and future. Amplifying the things I said or others said. My experiences, good or bad. Fit into this amplification framework. Which makes everything feel like an enemy. Activating my anxiety. Fight or flight. Guilt, shame, etc. Identity. You have no idea how much I'd give to be truly free. From my own mind.

## Rust

So rust has 'items' while rei has 'fields'. They are essentially the same thing. Except that rust items seem to form expressions. Rust also has tuples, which are pseudo types to hold collections of different types of data. Unlike arrays where you can only hold 1 type of item. Tuples are a compile time construct, though arrays are too.

## Rei

Based on rust, rei has:

SCALAR { f16, f32, f64, f128
u16, y32, u64, u128
i16, i32, i64, i128
byte
bool
char
uchar }

VECTOR { array[T; N]
tuple(T, ...Rest) }

NOTE: the 32-bit versions are generally marked as `@default`. `Size` is a `std` concept based on `u32` or `u64` most of the time. `uchar` refers to `utf-8 char`. The `char` refers to an ascii char. There are then "higher" types like data, enums, classes and functions. A tuple can be thought of as a simplified `data` without the ability to be annotated. The `type` alias can be used to create symlinks of identifiers -> another type resolved at compile time.

Should I resolve this in the AST/parsing phase or or the next phase. Maybe resolve some of the expressions like `(a, b)`, `[1, 2]`, etc. at semantic time. But treat them as `index_expr`, `array_expr`, `group_expr`.

Unlike rust, you can also define variables in a module root without a local scope. And export that. YOu can pretty much export anything, except maybe a pure expression. You should wrap it around in a block_expr or a let_expr. An anonymous block expr like:

```rust
mod g {
mod k {
    // block_expr resolves to 3, which is simply ditched
    export {
        // 3 is a literal, and is leakable
        3
    }

    data K {}

    export class C {
        // leak!
        k: K
    }
}
}
```

`impl` blocks are not really publicable in rust. But in rei, you can only `impl` a trait for a class. Classes' methods can also be declared + defined elsewhere through `export impl`. Exported class methods defined elsewhere are actually bundled up (?) or maybe you can choose which impl you want to use by qualifying the name. You cant import an item with the same signature. The compiler will complain. Instead, you would qualify the path properly.
