---
layout: post
title: Armv8
---

## Overview

Adds an optional 64-bit integer set of registers and instructions + the base 32-bit integer instructions. This is called AArch64.

- the 64-bit version is associated with ARMv8-A. Aka. the A-series arches
- the 32-bit/16-bit version is associated with v7-A and v8-R series arches

AArch64 also has the improvements to the NEON extension. Which allows 32 128-bit registers. But not 128-bit arithmetic/float support.

It does introduce double float support and is IEEE 754 compliant.

- standard specifies AES and SHA encrypt/decrypt instructions should use the 128-bit registers. Prob the key reason why they are there

Another big thing is the paired loads/store instructions isntead of the traditional LDM/STM.

- ARMv8.0-A also introduced virtualisation and hypervisors with execution levels

Trustzone: apparently an efficient & global approach to hardware security. Idk if it protects against spectre, which exploits kernel code executed out of order.

## Neon

It is meant to be a core thing for Armv8-a for SIMD. So we fetch 1 instruction and apply that operation to multiple data (values in registers).

You have 32 128-bit registers. So they can store up to 32 different 128-bit data elements. Or 64 64-bit data values.

- SISD => the usual instructions like `add x0, x0, x5`. A single instruction operates on a single data source at a time
- SIMD => a single instruction operates and affects multiple data values
- MIMD => a bunch of independent processors. This allows multiple different instructions to be executed at the same time, on multiple data valeus. For hyper parallel workloads like CAD and simulation

## Instruction Formats

Arm-v8.2a has 10 instruction formats.

## Exception Levels

There are 4 exception levels, EL0, EL1, EL2, EL3 in ascending order of privilege. EL0 is userspace and EL3 is firmware (usually BIOS and bootloader). EL2 usually has extra stuff like paging registers to make it a 'supervisor' and uses higher abstracted instructions. EL2 is not used very often thought could be used for stuff like driver code which you dont want it to touch certain CPU stuff and only handle MMIO ops.

EL0 is the lowest privilege and should be used by userspace apps that use the syscall ABI to request things from highly abstracted interfaces such as handles for filesystems, networking. And render contexts (windows) for outputting images/animations. And hooks and intercepts for certain devices like mouse/kb.

## Registers

All the registers, general purpose and special.

### General Purpose

For aarch64 -> 31 extra 64-bit registers x0-x30.

### Process State

Control regs -> masks, data endian (?)

Flag regs -> interrupts on/off, and stuff that determine behavior of other instructions

Status regs -> current exception level, states of processor. Useful for previous instruction arithmetic states, like carry from 32-64bits, sign, overflow

### System Info

Registers for stuff like ID, general system control, debug, generic timer, performance monitoring, GIC CPU interface.

## ARM64 Calling Convention

A calling convention for every architecture so we can load and use the same registers for a stable, guarenteed behavior.

- like MIPS, RISC-V, arm is a RISC arch and relies a lot on proper loading and storage of variables

We can technically use the 31 64-bit registers for anything. But we want to reserve some like the zero register, stack pointer, link register (subroutine return addr), frame pointer, platform-reserved, IPC scratch registers and etc. The other stuff are the usual callee-saved, caller-saved, arg and return use registers.

## FFI-L

A common language for language-agnostic interfaces. For structs (argument dynamics) and function signatures.

- basically rei/JS but without the extras
- allows for templating, overloading, multiple return vals, varargs, pointers and references

```rust
// interfaces, basically a repr(C) struct
interface ParamType {
    field1: Type1
    field2: Type2
}

// function signatures
fn callable_function(param1: ParamType, param2: AnyType) -> (ReturnType1, ReturnType2)
```

## Example: Cortex A72

Used in Exynos 990 and implements ARM-v8.2a.
