---
layout: post
title: Crimes in the New World
---

## Basic Crime

If unable to pay a fine or recover a stolen property to its owner, one may be penalised more harshly in other ways. Such as longer incarceration times.

- No separation between 'prison' or 'jail'. Simply being locked up with `lock up levels` ranging from:
    1. Low, petty crime, white collar crime. Inmate is usually treated better with more amenities and ways to reduce their sentence time on good behavior
    2. Medium crime. Crime like manslaughter, destruction of property. Inmate would be treated 'normally' as you would expect from a fully automated prison. Amenities depending on the prison
    3. High crime. Terrible crime like rape or abduction of minors, armed bank robbery
    4. Crime against god and humanity. Any misregard for a dependent child. Not providing adaquate healthcare, education, shelter and safety for them

### Stealing, Physical or Intellectual Assets

May be fined for 20% of the value of the asset, must pay back the owner with interest + compensation esp if stolen for a long time.

For intellectual property (implementations), a fine of 95% of the current and next forecasted yearly value may be fined. May be considered a white collar crime.

### Destruction of Public or Private Property

Similar to theft, but the actor must reimburse the full amount to the owners with compensation.

### Rape & Sexual Misconduct

May be fined $100-$1000 and incarcerated indefinitely without any formal parole.

### Posession, Purchase or Sale of illegal items

Illegal items include unregistered weapons such as firearms, explosives, armored vehicles. Also certain class of chemicals like toxins and drugs that can cause severe damage to yourself and others.

## Crimes against Humanity

This is the most severe of crimes committable by an intelligent entity. Mostly applies to human individuals and groups.

### Crimes against Children

If you are poor and make a conscious descision to have or keep a pregnancy. In many cases the government will mandate the child to be taken away from their guardians and be raised by a standardised raising committee and environment akin to a university like campus.

If you are under the age of 20, you cannot keep a pregnancy. You must abort and either wait until you are at least 20.0 years old or apply for a grant if you are close to that age, e.g. 18-19 and can prove that you have what it takes to raise the child. Usually to apply you must show that:

- you have good grades, personality and demeanor towards life, society, work, and other areas
- you have a good overall mental state and not have experienced much mental illness or physical ailments in your life
- you have a good support group of: your parents, spouse, friends. You should be on mostly good terms with your teachers and colleagues/classmates

If you are suspected of:

- beating or applying unnecessary physical force toward the child
- emotionally manipulating or gaslighting the child in a forceful or continual way
- doing anything that causes continual, mid-long term under or overstress, including not encouraging them to take care of their body with proper dieting and exercise, subjugating them to torment and your own personal problems, neglecting them and making them feel a bit too vulnerable

Then heavy fines and penalties may apply depending on the court of consequence's analysis and preliminary decision. These crimes are also subject to prelim-final decisions where judgements may be changed on the fly if new evidence is found.

Note: there are some leniency if the guardian is simply angry or frustrated in the moment, and does not happen more than a few times a year. Self control is expected of all adults and validated guardians over age 20.

### Hate Crimes

If you have an inferior brain, or are ignorant or feeling helpless or a combination of these features, then you may be sent to a reeducation scheme. You must clearly write a 1000 word statement on why you did what you did and link your own brainal features to your actions. If you cannot adequately link them or make a wrong judgement compared to the current science, you may be sent straight to reeducation.
