---
layout: post
title: At night, the Mind
---

## Brain Perspectivisation of Surroundings

Perhaps a sense of claustrophobia? Or being stuck in a small place with hardly any view of the outside world.
Hence the only view is through the internet. Through other people. And you inherit their struggle.

It seems like a balancing process. Not too completely ignore them. But not to be completely stuck here.
The outside world, your place. Hurstville, Sydney, Australia. Why not move around a bit? And see that the shit you see online
is just that, shit.

## Automatic Versioning

With rei, what if I make it so integrated that rei tests and rei files get automatically searched through by the top level prei. So reversion looks at prei for the included files in `src/`. Then it automatically adds new classes, functions, vars when they are made, or remove them if they are cut out or moved to another file or namespace.

When a testing framework `rei test` we can also make changes as well. When new tests pass or fail, add to changelog on reiversion call.

Usually should be used for pushing to rei.io.

Also, we might want to make large changes or overhauls to the codebase. Meaning significant chunks of logic, fields, files, namespaces can be moved around and their labels changed or removed. With some new ones prob added in. So we have an automatic `refactor` checker when your code changes result in a lot of modified logic instead of additions. This also includes removals, which are seen as 'cleaning up' type refactoring.

### Types of Changes

Tests -> tests start to pass. Should be more and more common as codebase develops and TDD sets in

New -> additions of fields, namespaces and files. Should be most common type of change for new projects

Config -> configuration and modifications to the project settings and metadata. Should hardly be used after starting a project

Refactor/Tidy -> overhauls to codebase (based on proportions and only applies to release versions, not alpha/beta). Includes removal of code without as much additions. Also includes changes to the style and comments to be more concise or match a style guide. Should be used once in a while after codebase becomes somewhat brittle and clunky to update
