---
layout: post
title: Update
---

## Mental Retardation Depression (Negis)

What is [retarded depression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Retarded_depression) you ask? Unlike agitated depression, this is a key feature of a man's mind. Well a man with inefficient neural connections leading to amplification of certain facets within the brain. That includes emotion, thoughts, and all brain phenomenon.

### Possible Fix to Negis?

Yes there is. I wont reveal it but I am 99.99% sure that a cure can be found within the next decade.
Not just found, but widespread.

## Pi4 Neutron Update

I didnt really do much for it. I feel like it would be a good idea.
Would be great to be able to just upload and test. But will prob be using an SD Card (Slow NAND Flash). Unless I get myself a way to upload power to the SSD and connect it to the pi. An NVMe one might be good.

I feel like the RAM is a bit too slow. Its not too bad but for 8GB LPDDR4, it sure takes quite some time for a web browser to render stuff. On a 1080p@144Hz monitor that is. 4K is worse. I think its mostly the GPU, its about as good as a mid range phone's GPU. The CPU is a 4-core [Cortex A-72](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ARM_Cortex-A72), a 2016 CPU. It is about as good as any mid range phone from 2016, here's a [comparison between a 2021 processor](https://www.cpu-monkey.com/en/compare_cpu-qualcomm_snapdragon_650-1825-vs-qualcomm_snapdragon_888-1853).

A better detail spec [here](https://www.cpu-monkey.com/en/cpu-raspberry_pi_4_b_broadcom_bcm2711-1796). The Pi4B GPU is worse than an Intel Atom E3825 iGPU! Wth?? Thats like a surface go

### VideoCore Details

<https://forums.raspberrypi.com/viewtopic.php?t=244519>

- Apparently quite unique, though seems reasonably normal to me. An ARM based GPU with 2GB VRAM.
- Can output 2x 4k@60 through GPIO & mini-HDMI
- FP16 support, great for ML. Also FADD support
- A single 'streaming processor' has 64 threads
- Better [MMU](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/drivers/display/gpummu-model) for per process virtual -> physical mapping through the kernel

### Cortex A72

A pretty decent cpu. The Pi4B uses a 4x core cluster for the A72. No big.LITTLE or anything special. No Security features or processors like in modern SoCs.

- As an SoC, the CPU cluster is placed close to the GPU cluster. With this setup, 'unified memory' is possible. But the BCM SoC uses separate memory, 8GB for the CPU and 2GB for the GPU. If they unified their memory, maybe it could have a been faster since memory speed and latency was one of my main complaints
- 1.50GHz average freq. No overclocking though it is 'unlocked'. So you should be able to write your own drivers for overclocking
- No 'prime' cores, all cores are the same. No hyperthreading cause RISC and NUMA is not required. Though NUMA on the cores themselves are prob there for SIMD (NEON) for faster multimedia processing. Also DSP extensions on each core
- Supports Vector FP32 and FP16 instructions in the VFPv4 extensions
- No L3 cache

Within L1 and L2 caches, there is an MMU (TLB):

- 48 entry L1 Instruction TLB (>=4K pages). Each entry is 1KiB
- 32 entry L1 Data TLB (>=4K pages). Each entry is 1 KiB
- 1024 entry L2 TLB per core. Supports 'hit-under-miss'. Each entry is 1KiB

Note 1,2,4GB versions have different L2 cache sizes. Smallest is 512KiB.

What is Set-Associative Cache?

- a cache scheme that reduces conflicts. N-way set associativity provides N blocks in each 'set' where data mapping to that set might be found
- Technically a direct mapped cache is a one-way set associative cache. </br>
More details <https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/computer-science/set-associative-cache>

## Memory Stuff

But rn I also want to get memory somewhat working. This means setting up the CSR for paging and checking in on 4-level paging stuff. The algorithm is actually quite simple, always assign the next free frame from 0x0. For virtual pages, doesnt matter. Since page table lookup is O(1).

Problem is fragmentation, which with paging you get some internal fragmentation rather easily but at a rather low amount since 4K is pretty small. Also 128TB!

- No need for ECC, just more efficient hardware for spotting and correcting errors in memory
