---
layout: post
title: Neutron Update
---
## TDD and Full Suite

I was thinking that TDD really helped. Heh that 1531 course truly made sense. When you start with tests you start to see how the program should work. This is nice when you try kernel deving. I guess program deving also works nicely too. Another thing is to start from the top and go down. Then you can see how everything fits in together within the guidelines of software eng. Stuff like KISS, DRY, loose coupling, first principles. Starting from the bottom also helps if you have restrictions. For hardware we are restricted by current technologies (for the next e.g. 3-5 years) and economical reasoning. We want preferrably low costs and high performance within the bounds of what is currently possible. And research and new tech is apparently also costly but idk, I kind of like it too.

So stuff like new software isnt as problematic as new hardware. Things at the highest level like software apps, GUI, etc are also limited by what the hardware and optimisations can provide. But it should be fine I think. If you start from the hardware and build up as well as simultaneously starting from what the people need for the next few years and build down, you eventually arrive at a nice concept for a kernel. I think such conception would be minimalistic in its overall memory and performance footprint. According to the latest guidelines of seng and laws of nature, things should be at the lowest energy level and not be wasteful. Individualist, single responsibility. So maybe pluggable kernel modules in a dir called `/mods` or something like git submodules pluggable into `/mods`? Then have a similar API to load such modules between certain layers. E.g. a driver module plugs into `/driver/mod` and a higher level, e.g. graphics module plugs into `/service/mod`. Then the graphics can be decoupled almost completely from the core manager logic and if you wanted to update it you can easily update and replace the logic without having to touch the core kernel logic. You would still have to change the app-graphics service interface and code it seems.
