---
layout: post
title: To-do
---

## Languages

So I really like `rei`. Getting it up makes sense. We can also watch others do it. I like how relaxing it is. It doesnt have to be annoying. The next step is a fully functional grammar with the parser. As long as its LL(1) with no backtracking, which it seems to be. Thats pretty good. You can also just use another parser frramework for it.

The thing is then to somehow play along with the generated AST. I've looked at rust. And it seems to make the expressions more "generic". Desugaring and stuff if you parsed the sugar directly. Into a form that can be type checked as you crawl the tree.

## Expressions

So this was the root I guess. I dunno how "best" to structure it. If there even is a best way. I think just like rust, we should just have everything in one thing. Every possible expr is OR'ed. Then we notice a pattern. Where certain operators have certain privileges. `()`, `{}`, `*/%`, etc.

## Arcen

Epaint looks very nice. I also went with egui for a pluggable UI engine in T3D. You actually just write egui directly. Just like arcen. Im thinking about unifying it so you can transform arcen -> egui and other ui frameworks. Maybe even druid. Dioxus native, prob too.

## The brain lock

The brain keeps torturing me with thoughts of past and future. Amplifying the things I said or others said. My experiences, good or bad. Fit into this amplification framework. Which makes everything feel like an enemy. Activating my anxiety. Fight or flight. Guilt, shame, etc. Identity. You have no idea how much I'd give to be truly free. From my own mind.
