---
layout: post
title: Update
---

## Brain

So I've been having some brain loopbacks. I found that just not doing anything helps. Even if it makes you a bit bored. Good food too.

If you think about it. The brain is responsible for 99% of your problems.

## What I wanna do

So I wanna get some quantii/neutron apps up. And one of them was an IDE idea I had. Called `rein`. Its an IDE made for neutron for a language called rei. In this IDE, you have something like vscode with your editor context, settings UI, sidebar, and overall "feel". But you also have direct embeddable script blocks for `reis`, `phant/asm`.

To make it we could just use something like dioxus. But I found it kinda err. How should I say, not exactly fitting for what I want. Especially to write a nice library for. I like yew.rs far better, but the fact that you have to use tauri makes me think of electron. I dont think they're going to get yew native up anytime soon either. So basically the best option I have rn is:

Arcen. A new gui framework built completely in rust. With default wgpu support for gpu rendering. Not only that, you can "plug" an arcen ui specification into T3D, to setup your game UI. The UI plugin of T3D uses arcen by default. Terraformer3D is a game engine built for neutron using wgpu. What this means is that on a neutron build that links wgpu-native, we have a pretty direct rendering infrastructure.

## How does it work?

Uhh.. Im working on that. But Ive seen UI libraries do multiple things and are quite flexible. I think for a direct window-widget rendering config, Arcen should dynamically figure out how big each widget is, and its colors. Or OpenGL handles that? Yeah it handles the downscaling and upscaling. So maybe we can try to just make use of the GPU downscale/upscale API and present it with a mipmap of different sizes. We start off with textures of really large sizes like 4K and scale that down. Or even better we have a bunch of vector assets.

You usually put your stuff in `/assets`. But Im thinking about it a bit more. And it makes sense to just put everything under `/path_to_game_app/.t3d/assets`. On Neutron, your filesystem will be able to expand it out.

## How do UI's usually work

So you have a UI engine that takes your declarative code and transforms it into some tree that can be readily walked through. On your walkthrough, you tell the render engine the specifications of each node. Where each node represents a box in the CSS box model. So you have the root box which is the webpage. And subboxes starting from the top, usually. And since its ordered that way, you cant really parallelise it (at least the walk part).

Now the specs. You have to convert it into some form that is makes sense to the backend render engine. So for wgpu, prob a bunch of vertex data. We always deal with the whole screen/frame. So uhh yea. Maybe I can also use bevy-iced for my UI engine for now. How does that even work??

Ok Im confusing myself even more. Why dont I just link Iced in? It uses wgpu as well, but instead of just rendering a window. You render that to a texture. And draw it on top of the actual render.

## Iced

We can have a swappable UI engine. Iced can be used to define your UI, which you can then "connect" to the T3D UI hook. When the hook() is called, it will take the new UI frame. With Iced, you have builtin state handling and stuff too, which is nice. Idk if its immediate or partial rendering. Or if it literally just draws the frame every single frame (I dont think that makes sense anyway).

Btw I have a huge habit of confusing myself. I overthink. And I loopback. Into a stupider state. In order to be superior to others. Lol.

Bruh iced is still badly integrated or something. Just dies with rust-analyzer. Even with the new resolver.

## Alahaalohh ey

[Here](https://github.com/tafia/quick-xml) is one that might work... Idk if it supports "custom expressions". Like I want jsx where you have `<tag attr={}/>` and `<tag>{rust_exprs}</tag>`.

How do XML parsers even work? And how fast do they really need to be? Prob just recursive descent I'd say.. Its usually better for as much control as possible. Speed? eh theres prob a bunch of optimisations you can do to achieve slightly better speed. But to trade off for progress to design something more rigid, nah? I guess thats why people use C#.
