---
layout: post
title: Time for COMP6900
---

## COMP6900, the greatest course

So this is a great course. Go to [COMP6900](https://comp6900.github.io) for more details.

## Neutron Services

So Im doing trait oriented service arch. I define a trait for 3 different types of services, file or IO type services, system services, process services.

- file and IO type services include disk, peripherals, drivers and memory
- system includes metadata on the system, time, and other info not in file or process
- process includes all things to do with apps, processes, programs, execution

Permissions are a thing that is relevant to all services. An app must have permissions from the current user.
Instead of giving each file a permission list for each user, we instead use `contexts`. Each user has their own `context` for everything. If a user wishes to share a file, they cannot do so on the current machine.
They must instead make it a `cloud` file and hand over permissions and process architecture to the cloud system.

- This simplifies a lot of the permissions and authentications on a local machine. We always assume a laptop, phone, desktop, or any personal machine is **personal**. So they have exactly one unique user. The user's details can be changed at will to simulate changes and another user that will take over the machine.
- In Neutron + ArcDesktop vanilla, i.e. Quanta STD, we do not have groups and ownership types. No need for any of that. Instead we rely on `app-prompted permission gathering`. An app must prompt the current and only user that it requires permissions in order to do something. Based on the app's reputation and official verification status, the user must make a decision to grant the app the permissions it requires.
- When an app or process has a specific permission, it is almost as powerful as the kernel in that regard. It should not have to make an interrupt to the kernel to grant it a service. It should be able to make an MMIO service call using a `token` granted to it by the kernel. Processes are meant to keep their tokens safe from other processes and not reveal it under any circumstances. An app may be granted a permanent token stored in a file that it only has access to. Other apps/processes not on that file's list cannot access it.
- Specific services like read, write, open, close may be a bit complex to make streamlined without context switching. They must read from a file that they have access to. When using MMIO services, they must not be able to access any other file either. I think it may be possible, but idk we'll have to map the file itself so maybe not.
