---
layout: post
title: Theory of Natural Intelligence
---

I think I have come up with an interesting theory of intelligence. It basically divides "intelligence" into two major aspects in terms of learning, cognition

1. capacity
2. performance

and another aspect: need.

Humans have a very high capacity for learning and can learn deep, complex rules and facts. Like, the nature of weather, what causes wind, what causes death. Animals like whales also seem quite intelligent but do not have the same level of complexity in their neocortex, i.e. they may not have as much "grey matter" in proportion to their white matter

Human intelligence is also quite performant in terms of reasoning, arithmetic, planning and creativity. You can think about many different scenarios and consider many different factors when planning. And its usually quite decent, depending your current mental state. Sometimes its faster, sometimes its slower. Perhaps due to cognitive load and anxiety, or a lack of stimulus. Humans, when given the right stimulus and foundational knowledge, are capable of many things compared to other animals.

Creativity could be an aspect of "capacity", like when you have to find a workaround to solve an issue and so you leverage your existing knowledge base to identify a different concept that could be potentially applied to the problem.

Performance also implies how fast you can learn something and how much you can leverage your existing knowledge  BASE to aid your reasoning and understanding of a subject.

But that does not necessarily mean that humans have a "need" to do something or create something. You do not always need to think about e.g. what happened at the beginning of the big bang, or whats on the other side of the moon. You dont have to reinvent the wheel either, you could use other people's knowledge and works. Nor do you have to completely understand how it works deep down, just how to interface with it. Much of human understanding seems to have derived from individuals seeking out knowledge and understanding of concepts and things we face everyday. Instead of just treating them like black boxes. For example, the human body is very complex, and for a long time, it was not known how such bodily processes worked exactly. Perhaps some general details, but things like pathogens and microorganisms were all around us yet were not discovered until somewhat recently during the scientific revolution.

Creativity could be also be an aspect of "need". In the finding a workaround example, perhaps you are pressured by e.g. your boss to finish your job by the end of today. Using traditional methods, it would take too long. So you have a strong incentive to perhaps increase the performance of your brain to think about concepts more abstractly, and potentially find another alternative. In humans, this might e.g. engage your right brain hemisphere more, which may have evolved to process abstract thought.

What this also means that while an octopus or whale could potentially have pretty high performance and capacity for complex thought, planning and learning. But they may not have the right incentives to push them to leverage their intelligence like the way humans have in terms of building civilisations.
