---
layout: post
title: Culture Surrounding Early Education
---

I think the culture that kids are brought up in does not naturally lead to enlightenment and effective growth. It is basically a everyone for themselves kind of thing where the talented kids get boosted and the attention while the others that might different skill sets are generally just placed there to conform to the standards set. It does not allow an expansion of one's creativity from young and lead to a natural curiosity and interest in subjects like mathematics, science, history, etc. Teachers are burdened with 20-30 kids each and have to stay in a room for 8 hours a day. It just seems so inefficient. Think about the times when you actually get interested in something, you might spend hours on end by yourself, researching the task, reading books, writing notes. It almost happens automatically. You dont need to be coerced at all. Yet it seems we are led to be believe the best course of action is to have an "industrial" process of "kids in, kids out", where its like a factory line from "grade 1 to 12". Where kids sit down all day, having to look forward and listen for the most part. Sure there may be some interesting dynamics, mostly dependent on the teacher themselves, like perhaps encouraging discussion, giving out creative assignments, engaging with students a bit more at an individual level. But I think as a whole, it just feels quite inefficient and places too much "structure" on kids from young without them exploring these fields in a naturally curious way themselves
